Adds documentation for managed identity (#4)
MicrosoftDocs/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go: msal-go/advanced/managed-identity.md

---
title: Managed identity with MSAL GO
description: "How to use Azure managed identities in MSAL GO applications."
---

# Managed Identity with MSAL GO

>[!NOTE]

> >This feature is available starting with [MSAL.GO](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/releases/tag/v1.3.0-preview) version 1.3.0-preview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>This feature is available starting with MSAL for Go version [`1.3.0-preview`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/releases/tag/v1.3.0-preview).
```

> A common challenge for developers is the management of secrets, credentials, certificates, and keys used to secure communication between services. [Managed identities](/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) in Azure eliminate the need for developers to handle these credentials manually. MSAL GO supports acquiring tokens through the managed identity service when used with applications running inside Azure infrastructure, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common challenge for developers is the management of secrets, credentials, certificates, and keys used to secure communication between services. [Managed identities](/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) in Azure eliminate the need for developers to handle these credentials manually. MSAL for Go supports acquiring tokens through the managed identity service when used with applications running inside Azure infrastructure, such as:
```

* [Azure VMs](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/virtual-machines/)
* [Azure Arc](/azure/azure-arc/overview)

For a complete list, refer to [Azure services that can use managed identities to access other services](/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/managed-identities-status).

## Which SDK to use - Azure SDK or MSAL?

MSAL libraries provide lower level APIs that are closer to the OAuth2 and OIDC protocols. 

> Both MSAL GO and [Azure SDK](/azure/developer/go/) allow to acquire tokens via managed identity. Internally, Azure SDK uses MSAL GO, and it provides a higher-level API via its `DefaultAzureCredential` and `ManagedIdentityCredential` abstractions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both MSAL for Go and [Azure SDK for Go](/azure/developer/go/) allow you to acquire tokens via managed identity. Internally, Azure SDK uses MSAL for Go and it provides a higher-level API via its `DefaultAzureCredential` and `ManagedIdentityCredential` abstractions.
```

> If your application already uses one of the SDKs, continue using the same SDK. Use Azure SDK, if you are writing a new application and plan to call other Azure resources, as this SDK provides a better developer experience by allowing the app to run on private developer machines where managed identity doesn't exist. Consider using MSAL if you need to call other downstream web APIs like Microsoft Graph or your own web API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your application already uses one of the aforementioned SDKs, continue using the same SDK. Use Azure SDK if you are writing a new application and plan to call other Azure resources. Azure SDK provides a simpler developer experience by allowing the app to use local-ready APIs, such as `DefaultAzureCredential`, enabling testing on machines where managed identity doesn't exist. Consider using MSAL if you need to call other downstream web APIs like Microsoft Graph or your own web API.
```

## Creating Azure Resources

You can create the resources needed for running the sample manually via the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/#home), or for a quick and

> concise breakdown of how to do it using Azure CLI or Azure Powershell, follow the instructions [here](/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication-managed-identity?tabs=azure-cli)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
concise breakdown of how to do it using Azure CLI or Azure Powershell, follow the instructions in the [Authentication with the Azure SDK for Go using a managed identity](/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication-managed-identity?tabs=azure-cli) article.
```

## Quick start

> To quickly get started and see Azure Managed Identity in action, you can use one of the samples the team built for this purpose:

Reviewer 2: I think one sample should be enough for the documentation. The one you linked above. Here you can have the code snippet to showcase the creation of managed identity type and sample code to acquire a token using managed identity.

Author: Cool will update the other documentation with the samples instead of having it here

> To quickly get started and see Azure Managed Identity in action, you can use one of the samples the team built for this purpose:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To quickly get started and see managed identity in action, you can use one of the samples:
```

> [Use Managed Identity sample](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/msal-managed-identity/tree/main/src/go)

> ## Running Locally

Reviewer 2: When you say running locally what does that mean? Managed identity scenarios does not work locally.

Author: I just mean how to run the samples from your local machine using the repo sample app, i can maybe renname this

### Step 1:  Clone or download this repository

From your shell or command line:

```Shell
git clone https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go.git
```

or download and extract the repository `.ZIP` file.

> The GO sample is located in the [`/apps/tests/devapps/managedidentity`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/c5febcbae287a26a0cfedd45f4edeaf3c41ad7dc/apps/tests/devapps/managedidentity/managedidentity_sample.go) folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample is located in the [`/apps/tests/devapps/managedidentity`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/c5febcbae287a26a0cfedd45f4edeaf3c41ad7dc/apps/tests/devapps/managedidentity/managedidentity_sample.go) folder.
```

### Step 2:  Modify the Key Vault URI and Secret name values in the code

> Following are the changes you need to make:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make the following modifications in the code:
```

> - In the [`managedidentity_sample.go`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/andyohart/managed-identity/apps/tests/devapps/managedidentity/managedidentity_sample.go) file under the getSecretFromAzureVault method modify the following values,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the [`managedidentity_sample.go`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/andyohart/managed-identity/apps/tests/devapps/managedidentity/managedidentity_sample.go) file under the `getSecretFromAzureVault` method modify the following values,
```

    ```go
    keyVaultUri := "your-key-vault-uri"
    secretName := "your-secret-name"
    ```

> - Change these to match your key vault uri and secret name. These can be found in the following locations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Change the details to match your Azure Key Vault URI and secret name. You can find them in the following locations:
```

> 1. **Key Vault URI** - In your Azure home page, go to your key vault, on the Overview page our key vault URI can be found under **'Essentials'**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Key Vault URI** - From the your Azure portal, go to your Key Vault. On the Overview page you will see the URI in the **Essentials** section.
```

> 1. **Secret Name** - On the Key Vault Overview page, go to the Panel on the left and expand the **'Objects'** dropdown  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Secret Name** - On the Key Vault overview page, go to the panel on the left and expand the **Objects** dropdown
```

> Click into **'Secrets'**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Secrets**
```

> Click into the secret you want to use  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the secret you want to use
```

> Click ont the version you would like to use  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the version you would like to use
```

> Copy the part after the key vault URI and use that as your secret name  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the part following the Key Vault URI and use that as your secret name
```

> ### Step 3:  Save and Run the Sample

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Save and run the sample
```

1. Save the file  
1. In your terminal navigate to the `/apps/tests/devapps/managedidentity` directory  

> 1. Run the sample with the command

Reviewer 2: Recommend to add the env where to run the sample. I think this one is customed to a VM as this will give error on the local dev machines

Reviewer: +1

@AndyOHart do you mind adding some clarifications on the target environment?

Author: Yeah will update this to further clarify sources

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```go
```

        go run .
    ```  

> 1. The sample you want to run is the one corresponding to **'9'**, so when prompted enter that and it should run and show you the result

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The sample you want to run is the one corresponding to option **'9'**, so when prompted enter that and it should run and show you the result
```

> 1. The sample you want to run is the one corresponding to option **'9'**, so when prompted enter that and it should run and show you the result

Reviewer: I am not entirely sure why we call out the specific option here, rather than what it should be about (managed identity).

Author: Yeah this was from when we had a PR that was going to introduce what type you wanted to run, however it has been changed so will change this also

> ## How to use managed identities

Reviewer: This section needs to come before the sample.

> There are two types of managed identities available to developers **SYSTEM ASSIGNED** and **USER ASSIGNED**. You can learn more about the differences in the [Managed identity types](/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview#managed-identity-types) article. MSAL GO supports acquiring tokens with both.

Reviewer 2: What is this link? Is this a valid location?

> There are two types of managed identities available to developers **SYSTEM ASSIGNED** and **USER ASSIGNED**. You can learn more about the differences in the [Managed identity types](/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview#managed-identity-types) article. MSAL GO supports acquiring tokens with both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of managed identities available to developers **system-assigned** and **user-assigned**. You can learn more about the differences in the [Managed identity types](/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview#managed-identity-types) article. MSAL for Go supports acquiring tokens for both.
```

> Prior to using managed identities from MSAL GO, developers must enable them for the resources they want to use through Azure CLI or the Azure Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to using managed identities from MSAL for Go, developers must enable them for the resources they want to use through Azure CLI or the Azure Portal.
```

## Examples

> For both user-assigned and system-assigned identities, developers can use the **New** function in [managedidentity.go](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/c5febcbae287a26a0cfedd45f4edeaf3c41ad7dc/apps/managedidentity/managedidentity.go#L107)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For both user-assigned and system-assigned identities, developers can use the `New` function in [`managedidentity.go`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/c5febcbae287a26a0cfedd45f4edeaf3c41ad7dc/apps/managedidentity/managedidentity.go#L107)
```

### System-assigned managed identities

> For system-assigned managed identities, simple pass **SystemAssigned()** to the **New** function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For system-assigned managed identities, pass `SystemAssigned()` to the `New` function
```

```go
mi.New(mi.SystemAssigned())
```

> [AcquireToken](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/c5febcbae287a26a0cfedd45f4edeaf3c41ad7dc/apps/managedidentity/managedidentity.go#L216) is called with the context, resource to acquire a token for, such as `https://management.azure.com`, along with any Optionals, discussed later

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[AcquireToken](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/c5febcbae287a26a0cfedd45f4edeaf3c41ad7dc/apps/managedidentity/managedidentity.go#L216) is called with the context, resource to acquire a token for, such as `https://management.azure.com`, along with any optionals.
```

```go
miClient, err := mi.New(mi.SystemAssigned())
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("failed to create a new managed identity client: %v", err)
    return
}

accessToken, err := miClient.AcquireToken(context.Background(), "https://vault.azure.net")
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("failed to acquire token: %v", err)
    return
}
```

> ### User-Assigned Managed Identities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### User-assigned managed identities
```

> For user-assigned managed identities, the developer needs to pass either the client ID, full resource identifier, or the object ID of the managed identity when creating [**New**](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/c5febcbae287a26a0cfedd45f4edeaf3c41ad7dc/apps/managedidentity/managedidentity.go#L107).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For user-assigned managed identities, the developer needs to pass either the client ID, full resource identifier, or the object ID of the managed identity when creating [`New`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/c5febcbae287a26a0cfedd45f4edeaf3c41ad7dc/apps/managedidentity/managedidentity.go#L107).
```

> Like in the case for system-assigned managed identities, [AcquireToken](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/c5febcbae287a26a0cfedd45f4edeaf3c41ad7dc/apps/managedidentity/managedidentity.go#L216) is called with the resource to acquire a token for, such as `https://management.azure.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to system-assigned managed identities, [`AcquireToken`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/c5febcbae287a26a0cfedd45f4edeaf3c41ad7dc/apps/managedidentity/managedidentity.go#L216) is called with the resource to acquire a token for, such as `https://management.azure.com`.
```

```go
miClient, err := mi.New(mi.UserAssignedClientID("my-client-id"))
miClient, err := mi.New(mi.UserAssignedObjectID("my-object-id"))
miClient, err := mi.New(mi.UserAssignedResourceID("my-resource-id"))

accessToken, err := miClient.AcquireToken(context.Background(), "https://vault.azure.net")
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("failed to acquire token: %v", err)
    return
}
```

## Caching

> By default, MSAL GO supports in-memory caching  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, MSAL for Go supports in-memory caching
```

> MSAL does not support cache extensibility for managed identity because of security concerns when using distributed cache  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MSAL does not support cache extensibility for managed identities due to security concerns when using a distributed cache.
```

> Since a token acquired for managed identity belongs to an Azure resource, using a distributed cache might expose it to the other Azure resources sharing the cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since a token acquired for a managed identity belongs to an Azure resource, using a distributed cache might expose it to other Azure resources sharing the cache.
```

> ## Troubleshooting and Error Handling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshooting and error handling
```

Errors in MSAL are intended for app developers to troubleshoot and not for displaying to end-users.  

> For more information on how to handle errors from MSAL go see [error_design.md](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/andyohart/managed-identity/apps/errors/error_design.md)  

Reviewer: This should link to a doc on Microsoft Learn - we have it for MSAL for Go: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/msal/go/error-design

> Returned errors should contain some message to provide you with enough information to understand what has gone wrong

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returned errors (originating from the managed identity service) contain actionable context that will help you take mitigation steps.
```

### Potential errors

> For more information on the potential errors returned from the server, see this list of [error code references](/entra/identity-platform/reference-error-codes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on potential errors returned from the managed identity service, refer to the [list of error codes](/entra/identity-platform/reference-error-codes).
```
